Concurrency is a challenge in
the legacy monolithic world, and I would
like to start taking about this factor
from that perspective.
Let's consider the most basic use case
for concurrency in this space, increased demand.
Imagine for a moment you have a traditional application
and are seeing an increased load on a single API.
Now you can either increase the horsepower
to the entire system or spawn a new instance
of your entire application, which in the legacy case,
includes everything that your application exposes.
I hope you immediately see the wasteful nature
of solving the issue in this manner.
This, of course, assumes that you can even increase
the application instances or horsepower
without choking other processes.
This can quickly get out of hand.
Enter the concurrency model of the modern day
12 factor application.
We've addressed a need to break all
of these services into unique applications
and have them run as distinct processes.
So you may be questioning what's left.
This factor states simply that you would achieve
the various forms of concurrency by spawning
additional instances of you application processes.
If you have a web application that is under load,
add more instances of it.
If you have increased messaging on
an asynchronous message queue,
spawn more listener processes.
If you need to expose a service in another global region,
add that process to your remote data center.
There are a multitude of problems that you
can solve with this model.
One thing to take note of with this factor
is the concept of scale.
In a traditional environment we can perform
vertical scaling which quickly hits the law
of diminishing returns.
If you are not familiar with the process
of scale in application development,
take a simple worker that reads from input
and writes to the database.
Put sufficient load on the system
to see some taxation, and then
create a new instance of that process on the same machine.
Eventually, you will get to a point
where adding processes has a negative performance effect.
To solve this problem, you execute a horizontal scale
to another virtual machine or physical machine.
Now the applications aren't taking the hit themselves.
Granted, your database server may take a hit.
Concurrency in the 12 factor world isn't just
about applications.
Backing services are just as important.
You may actually find that this is
the hardest problem to solve.
Always take into account the ability to scale
both your application and their backing services,
especially when dealing with global distribution.